part form sewing asleep normally when
you do a sleeve you put the right side
on the inside we're working exactly the
other way around creating a French seam
which has a five millimeter seam
allowance only but first you want to
turn up the hem a centimeter and iron it
and then construct your first seam and
you can see it's quite slim and we're
just going to cut it back now so we get
it to three millimeters then you can
turn this over right sides are now
facing each other again and you could
pin this or you could simply iron it and
then stitch it and the seam allowance
again is 0.5 millimeter so you get the
centimeter in the end iron the seam
towards the back turn up the hem and we
are ready to construct our cuff the cuff
is turned up three centimeter and we
stitch this from the inside with a
sleeve turned inside out using the
number three on the needle plate to
guide us where the sleeve has this
indent indicates that is the front so if
you smooth out your sleeve and then turn
it over take a tape measure and measure
three centimeters and Mark those three
centimeters either with tailors chalk or
invisible ink or something like that I'm
using pins then for centimeter from that
point then take a third pin and where
these meet we're going to create a box
pleat you can take out the other two now
and stitch this we need to take
something to open out our box pleat and
I'm using a pair of scissors that works
really well then take some pins and pin
the sides because we are going to top
stitch either side this is going to be
visible from the outside so you need to
do it very tightly put it underneath
your sewing machine again my sleeve is
turned inside out so I can just get in
there
and I'm stitching just until I get to
the edge here of my hem and then I do
the other side as well
finally when this is done all you have
to do is turn the cuff up exactly half
and that gives you this lovely fake cuff
it looks great doesn't it nobody will
know how you even did that to look so
complicated yet it's quite easy all you
need to do is put a button on here your
sword to secure the cap on the seam and
you can sew right in the groove in order
to do that and the final step here is to
put a gather thread one centimeter of
the edge of the fabric all around the
sleeve head and when you pull the thread
a bit you get that lovely rounded shape
that's so important for any sleeve